Using the second version of the batbot and the before mentioned optimization algorithm
workflow, we did several experiments in order to find the optimum moving of the hind legs
needed in order to generate as lower score as possible.
All of this has already been explained in the last chapters.
So once again for around 30 generations each generation having a population of 10 solutions
each experiment lasting around 5 seconds the experiments were conducted.
And it was very interesting to see that we could achieve the reduction of the score from
generation to generation as seen in figure 5.
It is very clearly a sign that our algorithm is actually learning the best control strategies
for the hind legs.
Using a plot called a parallel plot is a great way of visualizing the values tried within
one experiment and also to see how effective this experiment was in order to reduce the
score as much as possible.
Our parallel plot works is as follows.
In our case as we are trying to optimize a five dimensional space we would have five
vertical parallel lines each representing one of the parameters that we are trying to
optimize.
A line can be drawn that goes from one line to another line to the third line to the fourth
line and to the fifth line which represents an experiment.
For example if we would have an experiment that has the parameter zero for the first
parameter the value one for the second the value 0.5 for the third and the value 0.2
for the fourth and the value 0.6 for the fifth then a line that goes from zero to one to
zero for the fifth could be drawn on the plot.
This zigzaggy line represents the values of the experiment and the line by itself represents
one experiment.
If we color code the lines and relate it to their scores and put all the different experiments
in one plot we can clearly see that there are an area of similar experiments that achieved
a much better score.
So we can see that our algorithm is actually converging to one result.
Interestingly when we plot the ellipse that is formed by said result we obtain a very
similar hind leg movement to the one seen by real bats according to the dissertation
thesis of Dor Dor Sudip.
Even though we could see that our algorithm learned and reduced the score and that we
were able to converge to a optimal solution we could also see that at the last generations
the score stagnates and doesn't change that much.
After several experimentations we thought this might be related to a mechanical design
limitation.
For this reason we decided to conduct a deeper analysis on the forces generated by the flapping
wings.
