In order to better understand the forks exerted by the batbot while flapping, the six-axis
sensor was used and the batbot was left to flap.
A very interesting finding was seen that the flapping force of the batbot could actually
be seen only in two very clear directions, one upwards and in front and one downwards
and in front, one representing the upstroke and the other representing the downstroke.
This is very useful as we can from this conclude that contrary to our belief, the force exerted
by the oscillatory movement of the wings was not creating a circular force, but instead
two forces in very clear directions.
From these two forces then, a general resorting force can be much easily calculated.
A very interesting finding of these experiments showed that the resulting force of the flapping
of the batbot in very high frequencies, as high as the safety of the batbot allowed,
the maximum resulting force would be around 2 to 3 N, which is much lower than the average
7 N that the batbot would need in order to counteract its weight.
This led to the very interesting question of how could it be possible that the lift
and the force exerted, the maximum force accepted by the batbot was so low when we've already
had experiments where the batbot was not only able to maintain its height, but also increase
its height.
For this reason, an experiment in which increasing frequency, flapping frequencies, was made
and their lift and resulting force was compared and we could see that even by achieving something
close to 5 Hz of flapping frequency, which is very close to the safety limit of the batbot's
second version, we still didn't manage to achieve forces higher than 3 N.
The reason why the experiments on the first batbot that achieve a constant height flying
and gaining height by so low frequencies could be solved and answered with the following argument.
While the batbot is flying in the forward direction, the force generated by the wings
is not the only force generated by the flapping wings, by the movement of the wings, is not
the only force that is allowing the batbot to fly.
There is also a very important phenomena occurring in the bat wings, which is the wind foil.
Similar to an airplane and using Bernoulli's principles, the forward movement of the bat
makes the air on the top side of the wing move much faster than the one on the bottom because
of the shape of the wing.
This is the phenomena airplanes use to fly.
So the forward movement of the batbot also generates a lift and it is the combination
of the airfoil lift and the flapping force that allows our bat to maintain itself in
the air and gain altitude, even if the force of the flapping wings, the force that was
only created by the flapping wings, would not be enough to sustain the flight.
This is a big problem when trying to create a batbot that is able to hover in the air.
What this means is that the airfoil lift from which we can take advantage when flying forward
is no longer there while hovering.
For this reason, higher frequencies of flapping are needed in order to keep the batbot or
the bats in general stable in one point while flying.
This is the same reason why the flapping frequency of the hummingbirds is so high compared to
other birds that are flying forward.
This led us to conclude that the current mechanical design of the bat using only one gear to move
the wings was not enough because when needed to apply more force or higher flapping frequencies
by several times we were confronted with the reality that either the parts of the batbot
would break or fail.
So an improvement on the mechanical design of the batbot was needed to achieve hovering.
