So, after doing the force analysis and realizing that the flapping frequency was not enough
and the force that the bat could exert was not high enough to sustain its own body and
that it needed the lift from the airfoil in order to sustain its own weight, we decided
to do some improvements.
Hence, we came to the version number three of the bat bot.
The main mechanical upgrade that we did were basically two.
First of all, we incorporated a second gear to the main axis of rotation that makes the
wings flap.
This had as a goal to increase the area of contact of the gears with each other, double
as much, this way the stresses that the gears would feel would be half as much.
This would allow us to obtain much higher flapping frequencies.
What happens is that with increasing flapping frequencies, the wing speed also increases
and the wind resistance, the force exerted by the wind on the wing, squares with increasing
velocity, which means that by increasing the flapping frequency, the resistance of the
wing quadratically increases and when the resistance of the wing is very strong, then
the stresses that the gear finds can be very high.
We saw this in several experiments in which the teeth of the gear broke.
For this reason, adding a second gear helped us achieve higher flapping frequencies without
the fear of the gear teeth breaking.
This way we achieved a more robust and more reliable gear system on the bat bot.
The second improvement that was designed after the results of the force analysis on the bat
bot version number two, was the fact that naturally the highest speed obtained by the
wings is when they have the neutral angle and there's a reduction of the speeds to zero
when the direction of the wings change, namely at the end of the up stroke and at the end
of the down stroke, which means that if we increase the amplitude of the flapping of the
wing but remain with the same flapping frequencies, that would result in higher speeds being achieved
particularly when crossing the neutral state or the neutral angle of the flapping wing.
For this reason, the second change that we did was to extend by four millimeters the
crane attached to the rotation axis so that the amplitude of the flapping of the wing
could also be increased.
These were the two main mechanical upgrades seen in the bat bot version number three.
Compared to the version number two, all the electronic systems remained the same.
