For future development of flapping wings robots, it's of great use to understand
how bats are actually using their hind legs, which role do they play, which
movements are needed to generate which kind of force. Of course in order to
find these out is very hard because trying to command a bat to move the
legs in the ways we desire is simply not possible and sometimes some movements
are not naturally done or are not done when we want, when we're trying to
experiment with real bats. This is a great advantage of using the bat bot.
Because with the usage of the bat bot we can actually program and command the
hind leg movements at our own will. This can help us understand and gain a better
insight on the secrets that lie in the movement of the hind legs of the bats.
That is why in this section we did a set of experiments in which we try to mimic
the hind movements of the bats in order to understand and get better insight of
the role at flying. As many parameters can be explored and different combinations
can be tested, this can become overwhelming as a very large amount of
different experiments would be needed in order to cover the whole range of
different movement possibilities. That's why this is a great example of the
advantage of the evolutionary algorithm system developed in this master thesis.
Exactly for these kind of situations the technology developed in this master
thesis can be of great advantage because we can save ourselves the time and more
efficiently and more quickly gain understanding on the parameters that
will prove to be of a resulting higher performance within flighting metrics.
In order to achieve this we'd use the data of a bat measured within the
dissertation thesis of Dr. Sudeep and used the information of this bat as inspiration
and reference point. For this reason we needed to adapt the dimensions of the bat
bot to best match the dimensions of the real bat. So what was done was analyze the
wingspan of the real bat which was 440 millimeters and the length of its leg
which was 40 millimeters. Then we calculated or better said measured the
wingspan of the bat bot which was equal to 1446 millimeters. Using these three
information and the rule of three we could then calculate the needed length in
order to have a constant ratio between the wingspan and the leg. Therefore the
resulting leg length needed was of 130 millimeters which was then adjusted to
the bat bot. In order to obtain reliable and comparable data all the experiments
that will be done from now on used the same input voltage of 11.6 volts as well
that all the experiments had a duration of 10 seconds. With the length of 10
seconds enough data and enough flapping cycles were able to be measured in order
to have a reliable average calculation of the forces exerted by the bat bot.
And this way we could exclude the possibility of certain measurements being
out of sheer luck or of unique situations that happen within a flapping.
10 seconds provide enough time to have enough flapping cycles to have a reliable
average. Before continuing with the detailed explanation of each experiment I
would like first to explain how the forces the resulting forces are
calculated. On the next plot we can see the measurements taken by the sensor
within an experiment. On the part A of the plot we can see colored in blue the
measurements in the z direction which represents the vertical direction and in
orange we can see the measurements in the y direction which could also be
understood as the thrust. All the values are given in newtons. As you can see at
the beginning and at the end of the measurements we can have the situation
that a measurement is started or ended before a whole period has occurred. For
this reason we needed to do a peak analysis first in order to identify the
peak values of the force measurements. Once we know the peak values we can
determine what a whole period represents in our data. So the idea of this
analysis is to only use data that we know is part of a complete cycle. In
order to achieve this only data that falls within the first found peak and
the last found peak are used for the following analysis and resulting force
calculations. Everything before the first peak and after the last peak is
discarded. From this data a lot of interesting analysis can be made. For
example on the right side of the plot we can see a plot that describes the
trajectory of the resulting force throughout the experiment. In the z axis
we can see that it's represented in the vertical axis of the plot and the y
axis the y force is represented on the x axis of this plot. This way we can get
an understanding of how the force behaves throughout the flapping cycles. From
this data we can calculate the average force in z direction also known as the
lift and the average force in the y direction known as thrust. If we combine
these two we can get the vector of the resulting force and if we calculate
using the Euclidean distance we can also calculate the magnitude of the
resulting force and using arc tangents we can calculate as well the angle in
which this force is being applied. Something else that we can also recover
from this data analysis is the frequency. As we have already calculated the
peak of the flapping cycles we can use all of these peaks and calculate the
distance between each other and from that calculate the average distance which
can also be understood as the period length and then by divided one divided
by the average period length we can also calculate the average frequency of
these specific tests which will be very useful in future analysis and in the
coming experiments.
