Now, I would like to talk about the results of the optimization experiment.
The optimization experiments showed great results.
We could very clearly see that our optimization algorithm worked perfectly, achieved much
higher scores than the ones did by the last experiments, and could also find a very clear
parameter that optimizes the force.
Let's start analyzing this score.
So within 25 generations, each generation having 10 different experiments, we could
see that the score went from around 0.95, which is more or less the values of the experiments
that we did before.
All the way to 1.11 newtons of force.
With a duration of 6.5 seconds per experiment and a population of 10 experiments per generation
and 25 generations, this made a total of 27 seconds.
So within 27 seconds, we were able to find optimal parameters that maximized the force
generation of the bad bot.
For further comparison with the last experiments, we would use experiment number 9 of the last
generation, we proved they have the highest score of 1.117.
It used the x total amplitude of 49.6, the y amplitude of 20.3, the neutral y angle of
24, and a delay of 5.24.
As we can see, when compared to the other experiments, the result found by the evolutionary
algorithm extremely surpassed the force generated by the bad bot, having a much better performance
than the other experiments.
Something interesting to realize in this plot is that the increment on the thrust was not
as high as the increase in the lift.
Somehow our evolutionary algorithm found a way to generate much more lift than thrust.
The force generated by the results of the evolutionary algorithm result showed an increase
of almost 16% on the force generated compared to the reference experiment we did in the
Bio-Mimicking Experiment 1.
When we compare the result of the frequency analysis with the force value, we see a very
interesting phenomenon here.
We can see that the experiment achieved using the evolutionary algorithm achieved very high
forces even by very low frequencies.
It is actually one of the lowest frequency values achieved in the whole experiment.
This could be described by the fact that the movements on our optimized solution that the
legs are doing are not only working to reduce the wind resistivity, but in this case, at
least compared to the other experiments.
We can conclude that the movement of the legs found by the optimal solution through
the evolutionary algorithm, these movements actually generate some sort of lift, actually
have a function to provide with lift instead of only providing with the possibility of
increasing the frequency by the same power.
This can be clearly seen in this plot as the six experiment results lies completely outside
of the culinarity seen by the other experiments.
When analyzing the parallel coordinates plot and also the covariance matrix that was adopted
using the covariance matrix adaptation algorithm, we can see that our algorithm within the experiment
converged to a very clear solution.
The solution is around 0.55 for the x amplitude, 0.3 for the y amplitude, 0.8 for the y neutral
angle, and around 0.8 for the phase shift, which will afterwards be converted using the
before dimension linear parallelization.
If we are to compare the data of the real BAT experiments, something very interesting
pops out, and it is the fact that the optimal parameters found by the CMA algorithm almost
entirely coincide with the movements observed by the BAT in the real BAT data experiments.
This is very interesting because with this we can prove that our algorithm actually learned
and optimized by itself and independently from the BAT data achieved the same result
as what the BATs actually do, resembling a lot what actually happens in evolution.
This is a great finding as we can now, with more security, understand the influence that
hind legs have at the generation of force for BATs.
A great advantage of this finding is that once that we understand that the optimal parameters
are very similar to the ones of the real BATs, we could also start experimenting with the
BAT bot to do certain movements that are not being able to be done or experimented on real
BATs in order to obtain better insight.
These results are very promising and showcases also the versatility and the utility and the
correct functioning of the evolutionary algorithm strategy developed for these master thesis.
