Experiment 1:

In this experiment we tried to recreate the movement of the real bat.
We had an issue that was that the data given by the bat regarding the amplitude of the hind leg movement was given in millimeters
and the bat bot actually works in angles.
So using the data of the bat and trigonometry we had to first define the movement of the hind legs in angles.
So for this we did the following.
We knew that the lateral amplitude was of 16 millimeters and that the vertical amplitude was of 10.5 millimeters.
As we already knew that the length of the leg was of 40 millimeters,
we could use basic trigonometry to calculate these in terms of angles by doing this following.
If you consider the leg to be the hypotenuse and the lateral and vertical movement of the hind leg to be the opposite side of the triangle,
then we could actually calculate the amplitude of the leg with arc sign of the amplitude divided by the length of the leg,
which gave 23.5 degrees in the case of the lateral amplitude and it gave around 15 degrees in the y amplitude.
In our specific case in this experiment it meant that during the upstroke the legs would open at a degree of 47 degrees,
which is the double as the amplitude calculated,
and then during the downstroke they would come back to their origin position at zero degrees,
whereas the movement in the y direction follows the movement of the wing bit,
so the hind legs and the wing bit are actually synchronous movement,
and the going up and down of the legs are going up by the amplitude that was before calculated with was 15 degrees upward
with respect to the origin position, which is zero degrees.


Experiment 2:

In the second experiment we wanted to know the influence the movement of the hind legs have.
In order to see this we did the following experiment.
We decided to leave the legs completely statically and just enable the folding and unfolding function of the bat.
This could give us a better understanding of what actual role or influence does the hind leg movement have on the results.
The first experiment showed to have a force of 0.96 newtons at an angle of 23.51 degrees and a frequency of 1.4 hertz.
The experiment number two showed a force of 0.9 newtons at an angle of 22.22 with a frequency of 0.33 hertz.


Experiment 3:

On the third experiment we wanted to understand now that we've seen the results by not moving behind legs,
we also wanted to see the influence the folding and the unfolding had on the results.
That's why on the third experiment we had stretched legs so there was no leg movement whatsoever
and also no folding and unfolding of the wings. The wings were completely extended throughout the third experiment.
This gave us a result of 0.89 newtons at an angle of 22.32 degrees and a frequency of 1.7.


Experiment 4:

So experiment number four consisted on testing the influence the lateral amplitude has on the bat but.
So it was more or less a recreation of the first experiment in the meaning that we are again enabling folding and unfolding
and also enabling the movement in Y and X direction. The amplitude and the movement of Y direction is still synchronous
when the wing bit and it is still of an amplitude of 15. The thing that we did different on experiment number four
is that we actually did 10 sets of tests that use a different lateral amplitude for the test.
So the values that we tested were ranging from 0 to 90 degrees.
So there were 10 experiments that went from 0 to 90 degrees.
In the following table you can find the resulting force, angle and frequency with respect to the X amplitude that was tested.


Experiment 5:

On experiment number five we once again inspired by experiment number two, the bat mimicking experiment
we set the X amplitude to be again of 47 and the Y amplitude to be of 15
and what we varied this time also in 10 different tests was the delay.
In this experiment we are trying to understand what happens to the forces when the upstroke and downstroke of the hind legs
is not synchronous with the upstroke and downstroke of the wing bit.
In order to test this we defined the variable delay which can have values from 0 to 2 pi
which represent the phase shift the bat boat has of the hind legs with respect to the wing bits.
We understood that any value of delay between 0 and pi is understood as a delay
of as a lagging behind of the hind legs with respect to the wing bits
and because of the cyclical nature of this parametrization
any value of delay that goes from pi to 2 pi could be understood as an ahead movement of the hind legs before the wing bit.
This is what we wanted to test in this set of experiments.
In the following table you can see the frequency, force and angle with respect to the delay that was tested in each test.


Experiment 6:

And the experiment number six, the lax experiment, is the optimization experiment.
As I mentioned before the technology developed in this master thesis that includes the application of evolutionary algorithms
to find optimal controlling strategies of not only bat boats but could be applied to any other type of robots
is of a lot of advantage especially for situations like the one we find now.
So in this experiment we try to see if the evolutionary algorithm strategy is able to find an optimal set of parameters
that increase the force as much as possible.
So in this example we're trying to optimize four different parameters.
First the X amplitude which is the angle that the leg moves while it's having its upstroke movement of the hind leg flapping
and this can range between 0 and 90 degrees, that's the first parameter.
The second parameter is the Y amplitude which can range between 0 and 60 degrees.
The third parameter is the Y neutral position.
This is the angle from which during the upstroke and downstroke of the hind leg flapping the amplitude starts to be counted.
So for example if my Y neutral angle is 30 and my amplitude is of 15
then I'll be having a frequency that oscillates between 45 and 15 degrees
because my angle is 40 and my amplitude is 15.
And the last parameter that we're trying to optimize is the delay of the hind leg flapping with respect to the wings flapping.
This can have values from 0 to 2 pi.
The score function for this optimization algorithm using the evolutionary algorithm strategy in this case is simply the resulting force.
There's a small thing though, we're trying to maximize the force as much as possible
and by default the evolutionary algorithm tries to find optimal solutions that minimize the score function as much as possible.
For this reason the score function is actually defined as the negative of the resulting force
which means that as the resulting force grows higher our score function becomes more negative
and our evolutionary algorithm would try to minimize this function as much as possible
meaning that it would try to do as negative as possible that means that the resulting force would be as large as possible.
