In these thesis we tried to demonstrate that using evolutionary algorithms was a viable
way of finding optimal solutions for controller strategies.
It had us the idea to test and train robots in the real life scenario as there were many
situations where robots and dynamic of robots and their environment were so complex that
simulations were either too slow in order to obtain a lot of repetitions which is normally
needed with other machine learning algorithms or were just too complex that we just didn't
allow to have correct representations of the real world.
This was a great advantage of using the actual robot in order to train it for the given task.
In these thesis we could clearly show and explain a very detailed description of a system that
actually worked on developing a robot for training to hover.
Hovering was from the beginning clearly stated that it was a very complex goal to achieve.
Nonetheless our plots and our experiments showed that the robot actually made a learning
attempt into that direction.
It was also of great use this algorithm because it made us realize that as much as the robot
could learn to fly that they were still some mechanical and physical limitations that were
afterwards worked on.
So even though the end goal of the test case of hovering was not achieved we could clearly
say that the goal of developing a system that trained robots using the CMA algorithm in
a successful way was indeed achieved and proved to be functional.
Nevertheless in order to take advantage of its full potential several experiments must
be repeated using the latest version of the upgraded BATBOT with its new mechanical and
electronic abilities.
Experiments which are unfortunately out of the scope of these master thesis.
Nevertheless these thesis laid the foundations from which hovering could be someday achieved
using this new technology.
Even though the complex task of developing controlling algorithms for hovering BATBOT
was partially achieved this system and this strategy definitely has important disadvantage
that must be mentioned.
First of all the greatest advantage of using the real robot to do repetitive experiments
to train a machine learning model is the fact that the security and the integrity of the
robot is compromised.
Definitely repeatedly testing a robot and exposing it to high stresses damages the robot
and unless the robot is very robust it would mean as it meant for us the need of constantly
repairing broken tiles of the robot.
This is a problem of course that simulations try to solve.
Nevertheless with the information obtained from the optimization algorithm strategy and
also the experiments made with the free forward flight incorporating the PID controller are
of great advantage and leap the project of hovering to a very mature state.
As mentioned before the scope of the thesis was to demonstrate that there's the possibility
of doing an optimization algorithm system using CMA to train a robot in which this case
the hovering of the BATBOT was only the study case from which we can say that an optimization
algorithm strategy is definitely suitable, efficient and successful.
With this information future work could focus on repeating experiments and refining optimization
using the same strategy and the same system developed in these pieces but using the upgraded
BATBOT to obtain more refined and better results with the now functioning BATBOT.
