In order to assign a score to each proposed solution by the CMA algorithm a
score needed to be calculated using the data obtained by the sensors. On the
version 1 using the load sensors we followed the following approach. We said
that the goal was only to try to reduce the sum of all of the forces, of course
using an absolute value to zero. This created a problem as the flapping of the
bat created sinusoidal measurements, which meant that depending on which part of the
period was included or excluded from the measurement in order to do the score
calculation the score could greatly vary. For this reason we developed an
approach that decided to use a moving window. So what was done was using
different ending points and a rolling window. Different scores were calculated
and we could see that the score had by itself also a sinusoidal behavior. So in
order to obtain a more standardized result of the score a line was fitted to
the sinusoidal score function depending on the window position and using this
line we could project this line to its value closest to zero and choose this
value to be our desired score. With the assumption that if the experiment was
done longer time cutting the measurement in the middle of a period wouldn't
influence as much the resulting score. But as having short and quick
experiments in this case five second experiment was of utter importance this
approach was used. Using the next sensor as it had much clearer and precise data
the peaks of the forces could be very well distinguished. For this reason we
decided to have another approach. The approach to solve this problem is as
follows. First this sensor provided us with force measurement very precise force
measurements in y and z direction. And with these precise force measurements we
could also very clearly see as well this sinusoidal behavior and we could clearly
define the peaks of this force generated by the flapping motion of the
batbot. For this reason and for the clearly clear clarity of the data we
could use a peak finding algorithm to identify the peaks of the data of this
sinusoidal data and while identifying the peaks we could determine exactly from
which second to which second one period took place. So what we do is only use the
data from the first peak calculated or found to the last peak. This ensured us
that in every single measurement we know that we always start an end at the
beginning and at the end of a period and that we were not cutting a period
sometime in between which gave us much more reliable and consistent data. Now
that we learned how we cut the data the data that was decided to be used was
then processed as following. We could clearly see that using the y and z force
calculation that there's an oscillating force that went up then to the center and
then down and then to the center. So the following idea was as follows if you
calculate the sum of all these forces you could calculate something similar to a
resulting force. Therefore each experiment the result of each experiment could be
reduced to a resulting force and this resulting force as the sensor had been
calibrated to not measure the weight of the bat but would exactly measure the
resulting force the bat accepted with the proposed solution and as mentioned
before the solution or the goal is to try to reduce the resulting force as much
as possible. For this reason in our second version which is a version that
proved to be the most useful the score was calculated simply by using the
Euclidean distance of the resulting force vector from zero.
