I would like to talk a little bit about the test bench. I made two specific test
bench. The first one that I'm going to be talking about is the static test bench.
The idea of the static test bench is to be able to test different configurations,
different movements of the bad bot and be able to measure the forces it
exerts. On the first version of the test bench what we did was use six load
sensors configured in the array showed in figure one and from the six load
sensors a metallic structure was positioned on top of it where the bad
bot was connected to. At the connection of the bad bot with the structure there's
a servomotor that also controls the angle of attack of the bad bot. In the
version one we can use the information of the load sensors in combination with
basic mechanical principles to calculate the lift and the drag forces. In the
following formula we can see the process needed in order to calculate the lift
and the drag of the of the bad bot as well as the thrust using as an input the
six different load sensors. Connected to the six load sensors is the data
decision device called BSQ that is used to obtain the data from the six
sensors and communicate them to the computer via a USB connection. More
details of the BSQ would be explained in the further section of the same chapter.
The version one design of the static test bench had a lot of disadvantages and
problems. First of all a calibration was needed which proved to be very
challenging as the moving parts of the structure had an issue because if the
moving parts of the structure were fixed by tidying the screw very much these
made that there were internal tensions in the whole structure and what happened
with this is that the sensors were measured also part of this internal
tension and when the bad moved or when the structure was changed the calibration
data needed in order to not to obtain an absolute zero also changed. On the other
hand if the screws were loose the structure had too much movement which
also gave back not very good quality data. Also the formula is used in order to
calculate the thrust and the lift with this configuration of sensors is
normally used when putting a flying vehicle like an airplane or something
similar in a wind tunnel. Unfortunately on our case we have a flapping
vehicle that generates a force compared to the other type of experiments that I
just mentioned which is only passively calculating the forces that the wind
exerts on the vehicle. In our case the vehicle itself is propelling and
generating a force and a torque and with this configuration it was very hard to
distinguish if the thrust exerted by the bad boat was being correctly measured
by the load sensors or if a moment accepted by the bad boat was the one
that was being measured. It was mathematically not possible to decouple
the information of a moment being accepted or the thrust being exerted on the load
sensors. For all of these reasons an upgrade to a better static test bench
was needed.
